Welcome back.
Now that you know a little bit
about how a Caesar Cipher works,
it is time to expand your Java
knowledge so you can implement one.
You should know something
about strings already.
If you took our previous course,
Java Programming,
Solving Problems with Software,
you learned how to manipulate strings.
If you are unfamiliar with strings,
we recommend you brush up
on them before proceeding.
However, to perform encryption,
you need to do something with strings that
you did not do in the previous course.
In that course,
you analyzed the contents of strings and
operated on pieces of existing strings.
However, you did not build up new strings.
If you carefully reexamine what you
saw about how a Caeser cipher works,
you will see that you are making a new
string by adding one character at a time.
One way that you can build up
a string is with concatenation,
which is a fancy word for
sticking things together.
In Java, you can perform string
concatenation with the plus operator,
whenever at least one operand is a string.
If one operand is a string but the other
is not, than the concatenation operator
figures out the string representation
of the non-string operand and
concatenates that.
For example, if you were to write these
two strings with the plus operator
between them, you would be telling
Java to perform string concatenation.
The result would be the string you see
here, which was formed by sticking these
strings together,
exactly what concatenation means.
To illustrate the usefulness
of this operation,
think about the Caesar Cipher
you're working on.
You might want to take the original
alphabet, as a string, and
make a rearranged alphabet
based on the key.
You could do that by taking
two pieces with substring,
which we're already familiar with,
and concatenating them together.
First, you would take
the substring starting at 23.
Remember the substring with only one
argument returns the substring starting at
the specified position and going all
the way to the end of the string.
Then you would concatenate the sub
string from zero to 23 onto the end of
that string.
Now you have two strings which
describe the mapping from each
plain text letter to
the appropriate cipher text letter.
We did this for the key of 23,
but you should think for
a moment about how you would
generalize this for other keys.
As you learn more about
manipulating strings,
it is important to know
that they are immutable.
You cannot change an existing
string once it has been created.
Instead, if you want a different string,
you must make a new one with that change.
This concept may seem a bit confusing and
subtle, so
it helps to see it with a picture.
Here we have declared a string and
initialized it to hello.
Nothing new or surprising here.
A common practice is to draw a picture
of the effect of this statement by
drawing a box for the variable s, and
making an arrow pointing to the letters
that make up the string hello.
If you declare another string x, and
initialize it with s, you would have
a picture that looks like this.
Both x and s refer to the same string.
Now suppose you did s = s + World.
That is you compute s concatenated
with the string, space World.
You are not changing the existing String,
but rather making another String,
which involves,
copying the existing Strings like this.
Notice that x is still Hello, cause you
did not change the existing String,
you made a different String and
assigned it to s.
If you do a lot of string concatenation
operations, on large strings especially,
the required copying can be quite slow and
inefficient.
Even though we are not terribly focused on
the most efficient way to do things yet,
it is still a good practice
to develop good habits.
If you are building large strings
by adding many small pieces,
you wanna use a different approach.
In fact, Java has a StringBuilder
class specifically for this purpose.
It provides a mutable
sequence of characters.
Meaning, it is like a string but
you can modify it, changing and
inserting characters in an efficient way.
When you create a new
StringBuilder you can pass a string
in to specify its initial contents.
There are also many useful methods.
We will name just a few of the most
important ones, but recommend you consult
the API documentation for
a full list and more details.
One useful method is append,
which lets you put a string on the end.
You could also pass in
other types of data,
which will be converted to a string
before being added to the end.
You could insert a string or
the string representation of other
types of data at any location you want.
You can get or
set individual characters by their index,
the numerical location where they
are in the sequence of characters.
When you are done manipulating
the string buffer,
you will often want to use toString
to get the string you have made.
As before, it helps to see a picture
of how these methods operate.
Here we have started by creating a string
builder and passing in the string Hello.
We have drawn this picture with sb having
an arrow pointing to the sequence of
characters in the string builder.
Now if you call sb.append and
pass in world you will modify
the existing sequence of characters.
Notice how we changed the existing
sequence rather than copying them into
a new sequence.
You can also insert or
put the characters into the middle,
which would still modify the same
sequence of characters like this.
Great.
Now you know how to build up
strings from smaller pieces.